README.md, before:

# Light Controller
This is a project for controlling lights using ESP8266
You could be able to build an example project using this manual. With this you are able to:
  - Control LED using LAN (through Wi-Fi)
  - Control LED using hardware button
  
### Requirements (for basic testing project)
  - board with ESP8266
  - 8* 220 ohm resistor
  - 4* LEDs
  - 4 buttons
  - Same number of controlled lights and switches! 
  ![Schematic](https://github.com/tomas-dostal/light_controller/blob/master/light_controller_v1.png)

### Dependiences installation

To install this code on an ESP8266 board you need to have:
- Arduino IDE tool
- Also, you need to add ESP8266 to Arduino IDE's boards. See [this manual](https://randomnerdtutorials.com/how-to-install-esp8266-board-arduino-ide/) before continue. 

After installation, you need to *set proper board*. 
For this just select in Arduino IDE Tools -> Boards -> (scroll down) {your prefered ESP8266 board} 

![See the selection here. ](https://cdn.sparkfun.com/assets/learn_tutorials/3/6/5/arduino-board-select.png)

In general, it's up to you which board you select. Depends on the model you have at the moment. This project was built for NodeMCU 1.0.
Finally, you need to set where is the board connected. Tools -> Port -> Select connected board. On Ubuntu, it is something like */dev/USBtty0*. 

### What to do before uploading code to ESP8266
You have to change a few variables before uploading program to ESP8266. 
```c
const char* ssid = "SSID";  // SSID of the network you want to connenct to
const char* password = "PASSWORD";  // PW of the network you want to connenct to
int button[] = {D0, D1, D2, D3};  // HW buttons
int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
```
Also you need to add as many colums how much lights you have in following code: 
```c
// for 4 lights and 4 buttons
int now_light[] = {0, 0, 0, 0};
int required_light[] = {128, 128, 128, 128};

int now_button[] = {LOW, LOW, LOW, LOW};
int last_button[] = {LOW, LOW, LOW, LOW};
```
```
// for 5 lights
int now_light[] = {0, 0, 0, 0, 0};
...
```


### First start

If you want to use a web interface, you should connect ESP8266 with a USB cable and open serial monitor with baud rate **115200**. After connecting to the Wi-Fi it should write down an IP you can use to connect to the web interface. 
> Note: your IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network


```
http://192.168.0.40/
```

#### WWW commands
Here are commands you can use to control your lights by URL line in your browser. 

**Turn on all lights**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=255
```
**Turn off all lights**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=0
```
**Turn off on lights to a specific intensity**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
> You can use values from 0 to 255. PWM is used.
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=42
```
**Turn on/off a specific light**
You can also turn on/off a specific light. 
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
> You can use values from 0 to 255. PWM is used.
> Indexed from zero (0)
>> int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
>> indexes = {0 , 1 , 2 , 3 };  

```
http://192.168.0.40/light[0]=255 // turns light 0 to maximal value (255)
```
```
http://192.168.0.40/light[1]=42 // turns light 1 to value 42
```
```
http://192.168.0.40/light[2]=0 // turns of light number 2
```


**Turn lights on/off using an NFC stick**
-  Note: Your phone needs to be NFC compatible. If you're not sure, [check it here. ](https://www.unitag.io/nfc/is-my-phone-compatible-with-nfc)
-  To use this feature you need to buy some NFC tags. [Want to buy some? ](https://www.aliexpress.com/wholesale?catId=303006&initiative_id=AS_20180215042558&SearchText=nfc+tag)
-  Also, you need an app you can write on NFC tags with. See [this one (Android only)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wakdev.wdnfc)
-  You should write on the tag a URL address to control it. These addresses were already mentioned a few lines ago. 
> After successful writing just approach your tag to your phone.
> You should be connected to the same Wi-Fi.

[Youtoube video](https://youtu.be/nTlXOTvhRiI)

#### WWW interface
You can also control lights using a web interface with buttons. 
You can also turn on/off a specific light. 
> Note: IP addresses might be different
> Note2: Be patient. This option is not 100% working. Sometimes it might not work well. 
> Indexed from zero (0)
>> int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
>> indexes = {0 , 1 , 2 , 3 };  

```
http://192.168.0.40/
```

### TO-DO/Known errors

 - Sometimes while using a web interface your browser wants a specific file which is not on the server -> it's needed to refresh the page several times. 

License
-----
(I need to decide. Possibly MIT)

Commit message:

Added a schematic to switch higher current

README.md, after:

# Light Controller
This is a project for controlling lights using ESP8266
You could be able to build an example project using this manual. With this you are able to:
  - Control LED using LAN (through Wi-Fi)
  - Control LED using hardware button
  
### Requirements (for basic testing project)
  - board with ESP8266
  - 8* 220 ohm resistor
  - 4* LEDs
  - 4 buttons
  - Same number of controlled lights and switches! 
  ![Schematic](https://github.com/tomas-dostal/light_controller/blob/master/light_controller_v1.png)
  

In case you need to switch higer current (use following schematic, but...): 
  - Connect GND of source to the GND of the development board
  - Connect wire from transistor to the light's pin 
  - -> int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
  ![Schematic](https://github.com/tomas-dostal/light_controller/blob/master/NPN_highpower_switch.png)
> Note: 3,4V power source and the blue switch simulates arduino pin (turn on/turn off)
### Dependiences installation

To install this code on an ESP8266 board you need to have:
- Arduino IDE tool
- Also, you need to add ESP8266 to Arduino IDE's boards. See [this manual](https://randomnerdtutorials.com/how-to-install-esp8266-board-arduino-ide/) before continue. 

After installation, you need to *set proper board*. 
For this just select in Arduino IDE Tools -> Boards -> (scroll down) {your prefered ESP8266 board} 

![See the selection here. ](https://cdn.sparkfun.com/assets/learn_tutorials/3/6/5/arduino-board-select.png)

In general, it's up to you which board you select. Depends on the model you have at the moment. This project was built for NodeMCU 1.0.
Finally, you need to set where is the board connected. Tools -> Port -> Select connected board. On Ubuntu, it is something like */dev/USBtty0*. 

### What to do before uploading code to ESP8266
You have to change a few variables before uploading program to ESP8266. 
```c
const char* ssid = "SSID";  // SSID of the network you want to connenct to
const char* password = "PASSWORD";  // PW of the network you want to connenct to
int button[] = {D0, D1, D2, D3};  // HW buttons
int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
```
Also you need to add as many colums how much lights you have in following code: 
```c
// for 4 lights and 4 buttons
int now_light[] = {0, 0, 0, 0};
int required_light[] = {128, 128, 128, 128};

int now_button[] = {LOW, LOW, LOW, LOW};
int last_button[] = {LOW, LOW, LOW, LOW};
```
```
// for 5 lights
int now_light[] = {0, 0, 0, 0, 0};
...
```


### First start

If you want to use a web interface, you should connect ESP8266 with a USB cable and open serial monitor with baud rate **115200**. After connecting to the Wi-Fi it should write down an IP you can use to connect to the web interface. 
> Note: your IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network


```
http://192.168.0.40/
```

#### WWW commands
Here are commands you can use to control your lights by URL line in your browser. 

**Turn on all lights**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=255
```
**Turn off all lights**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=0
```
**Turn off on lights to a specific intensity**
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
> You can use values from 0 to 255. PWM is used.
```
http://192.168.0.40/all_lights=42
```
**Turn on/off a specific light**
You can also turn on/off a specific light. 
> Note: IP addresses might be different.
> You should be connected to the same wi-fi network
> You can use values from 0 to 255. PWM is used.
> Indexed from zero (0)
>> int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
>> indexes = {0 , 1 , 2 , 3 };  

```
http://192.168.0.40/light[0]=255 // turns light 0 to maximal value (255)
```
```
http://192.168.0.40/light[1]=42 // turns light 1 to value 42
```
```
http://192.168.0.40/light[2]=0 // turns of light number 2
```


**Turn lights on/off using an NFC stick**
-  Note: Your phone needs to be NFC compatible. If you're not sure, [check it here. ](https://www.unitag.io/nfc/is-my-phone-compatible-with-nfc)
-  To use this feature you need to buy some NFC tags. [Want to buy some? ](https://www.aliexpress.com/wholesale?catId=303006&initiative_id=AS_20180215042558&SearchText=nfc+tag)
-  Also, you need an app you can write on NFC tags with. See [this one (Android only)](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.wakdev.wdnfc)
-  You should write on the tag a URL address to control it. These addresses were already mentioned a few lines ago. 
> After successful writing just approach your tag to your phone.
> You should be connected to the same Wi-Fi.

[Youtoube video](https://youtu.be/nTlXOTvhRiI)

#### WWW interface
You can also control lights using a web interface with buttons. 
You can also turn on/off a specific light. 
> Note: IP addresses might be different
> Note2: Be patient. This option is not 100% working. Sometimes it might not work well. 
> Indexed from zero (0)
>> int lights[] = {D5, D6, D7, D8};  // HW lights
>> indexes = {0 , 1 , 2 , 3 };  

```
http://192.168.0.40/
```

### TO-DO/Known errors

 - Sometimes while using a web interface your browser wants a specific file which is not on the server -> it's needed to refresh the page several times. 

License
-----
(I need to decide. Possibly MIT)
